# Marketing Campaign Analysis for Food Company
## Business Insights and Dataset Source
The food company is planning to launch a direct marketing campaign with the goal of maximizing profits. In a pilot campaign with 2,240 customers, those who purchased the offer were labeled as successful. The cost of the pilot campaign was 6,720MU and the revenue from customers who accepted the offer was 3,674MU, resulting in a loss of 3,046MU and a success rate of 15%.

The team's goal is to create a model that predicts customer behavior and apply it to the rest of the customer base. Additionally, the Chief Marketing Officer wants to identify the characteristics of customers who are likely to purchase the offer, in addition to maximizing campaign profits. The plan includes data exploration, segmentation, and building a classification model.

The dataset for this analysis was sourced from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jackdaoud/marketing-data).

## Results
Using a Random Forest model, we were able to predict 75% of customers who responded to the marketing campaign out of all the customers predicted to respond. Overall, the model had a high level of accuracy in predicting customer responses to the marketing campaign.

Based on the data analyzed, we recommend targeting middle class customers with incomes between 53,413 and 106,827 for higher success rates in marketing campaigns. Additionally, utilizing recent purchases as a targeting factor and targeting loyal and long-lasting customers may also lead to higher success rates. Younger customers, particularly those with an age of 25 and lower, and customers with no dependencies should also be targeted for higher success rates. To increase success, focus on targeting customers with higher spending, particularly those with total purchases of more than 2,000. Utilizing web-based and catalog-based marketing campaigns may also lead to higher success rates, as these types of purchases show a strong correlation with campaign success. In terms of customer demographics, consider targeting divorced, single, and widow customers as they tend to respond well to campaigns. It is also recommended to target customers who responded well to previous campaigns, particularly the first, second, third, and fifth campaigns. On the other hand, it may be wise to avoid targeting married customers and those with education levels of "Basic" or "2nd Cycle", as they tend to not respond well to campaigns.
